Ernani Joppert P Martins
Software Engineer / Lead Architect
Summary
My professional experience is related to software development, architecture, design and performance tuning.
I've also worked on data warehousing projects and business intelligence projects using commercial products
such as PowerCenter and PowerDesigner. I am involved into JEE (former J2EE) Architecture, .Net, Flex, AIR,
PHP Web based solutions and Mobile. Also develop on client side and webservices. I've worked on health,
banking and insurance and EAI projects, along as with an internet solution provider, which tended to provide
entertainment to end customers through quality of life, news, games, etc. I've worked abroad in Germany,
to a small software development company in a Car insurance and Car Leasing Configuration System, using
EuroTAX/Schwacke data model, Struts and Java Server Faces presentation Tier, along with Persistence using
Hibernate framework and IBatis. My professional goals are to work abroad, acquire experience living and
working in different countries and expand my knowledge as well as challenges. Specialties: JEE (former
J2EE) framework, Java, JSP, JSF, SOAP, Axis, PHP, XML, SAML, Rest, Websphere, Jboss, BEA Weblogic,
Tomcat, Struts, Eclipse, SWT, Swing, Hibernate, AMF, Flex, Adobe AIR, ActionScript development as well as
DB2, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server and other development solutions to achieve customer needs.
Experience
Application Integration / Web Identity at IBM Global Services
January 2005 - Present (10 years 2 months)
Technical consultant for Web Identity project at IBM Global Services, support and manage application
integration with SSO (Tivoli Access Manager/WebSEAL) and custom based SOA Profiling for internal and
external adopters, Business Partners profiling, authentication and entitlement, SAAJ and Federation also
involved.
5 recommendations available upon request
PHP Consultant at PHPSP - PHP User Group in São Paulo
2001 - Present (14 years)
Founded the php-sp list on yahoo groups by answering their questions, also contributed to the PHP group
fixing a few bugs as well as the PHP documentation translation to Brazilian Portuguese, attended some
events and tried to help the users to share their knowledge. Also done some free lances here and there related
to PHP, such as Wordpress setup, a blog commenting system and OSCommerce personalization.
1 recommendation available upon request
Open Source App Development (Community Developer) at Spare Time Open Source Developer
2009 - 2011 (2 years)
Page1
Independant Sr. Java EE/J2SE Consultant at Java/JEE Architect / Consultant
1999 - 2010 (11 years)
Provided several development solutions using the Java2SE and JEE technologies, both as an Architect Role
as well as a lead developer. The variations included Web Applications, j2me applications (mobile), desktop
applications using SWT, Swing and AWT, Unit Testing and Batch Applications to run at scheduled periods
of time to process loads of information with or without JDBC, JMS, RMI, IIOP, JBoss and MQ systems.
Business Intelligence/ETL Developer at BI and DW Consultant
1999 - 2009 (10 years)
Provided solutions and adjustments on several DW projects, ensuring Data Quality through ETL and BI
concepts both based on relational data models and OLAP, using the common Data Warehousing techniques
such as SnowFlake and StarSchema, Ad Hoc Queries and Data Quality in small and big data sets.
Websphere specialist at Websphere/Java Consultant
2004 - 2004 (less than a year)
Provided Advices on Java Development, training, recommendations, advices, articles and suggestions to a
wide variety of friends and co-workers alike
1 recommendation available upon request
System Architect and J2EE Developer at Savista Corporation (former NewPOS International)
2002 - 2004 (2 years)
I've adjusted an existing reporting tool that was responsible for providing a KPI reporting, Fraud detection
and other features for Domino Pizza in US. After that, transitioned to the NewPOS team which I've
assisted in the development of the Java/J2EE Version of the POS at the version 8.X, also worked in a TDD
environment, multi-threading Java Development and Raw TCP/IP communication mechanism.
1 recommendation available upon request
Java Software Architect (Consultant) at Ericsson
2002 - 2002 (less than a year)
Developed a integration between Ericsson's EHTP Setler for Interconnection and Brazil's tax rules to provide
a way to calculate interconnection fees based off on call types. Worked with BMP (Billing Mediation
Platform) with TCL/TK and C/C++ for file processing of CDR (Call Data Records) Also worked on a Java2
solution to address fixes of CDR's. Also worked on a project where it had the ability to process measurement
of usage and critical analysis and fraud detection of measured services on telephony.
Senior Web Developer at Internet Group do Brasil
2000 - 2001 (1 year)
1 recommendation available upon request
Web Developer at iG
2000 - 2001 (1 year)
Page2
I was responsible for the Development and Improvement of Árvore da Vida website, and then transitioned
to the Software Factory Team which began developing paid services, such as numerology reports, astrology
maps, and other paid services alike.
1 recommendation available upon request
Technical Support and Intranet Software Development at Sudameris Corretora de Cambio e Valores
Mobiliários
1996 - 2000 (4 years)
Provided User Technical Support, Intranet web development, Home Broker web development with Java
Applets, Ticket Emission System using MS Visual Basic, Lotus Notes and Network Administration.
1 recommendation available upon request
Languages
English
Skills & Expertise
JSP
Eclipse
Tomcat
Hibernate
Struts
MySQL
Java
JSF
SOAP
Websphere
Flex
JBoss
XML
PHP
Swing
AMFPHP
SWT
Axis
EJB
J2EE
Web Services
UML
Scrum
AJAX
Design Patterns
JavaScript
SAML
Page3
Subversion
Spring
PL/SQL
Delphi
CVS
Servlets
jQuery
Ant
Apache
JSON
Linux
SOA
Maven
DB2
REST
CSS
SQL Server
Weblogic
C++
Git
J2ME
Objective-C
Java Enterprise Edition
Education
Universidade Paulista
Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.), Business Administration and Management,
General, 1999 - 2001
Interests
Java, J2EE, JEE, technology, web development, multi tier software architecture, entrepreneurship, Hibernate,
Adobe Air, Adobe Flex, MySQL, PHP, J2ME, C, C++, SQL, DB2, Oracle, MySQL, Gaming, XNA
Framework
Page4
Ernani Joppert P Martins
Software Engineer / Lead Architect
11 people have recommended Ernani
"One of the greatest web developer I have had opportunity to work with at IBM. Learning is just you can
get from him, excellent knowledge, responsible, excellent developer and excellent person. During several
years we have worked together, Always friendly, focused and compromise describe him. Ernani is a great
element, any team or enterprise will be proud to have such a great developer, he talks by its own work but, he
is strongly recommended for any challenges, leading teams. And as a great person and friend."
Gabriel G., IT SPECIALIST, IBM, worked directly with Ernani at IBM Global Services
"This is the greatest web developer I have had opportunity to manage among many at IBM. It is difficult
to scope Ernani's qualities, só many are they só I will point some such as *deep knowledge *fast execution
*innovative problem solving approach *personal commitment *drive to achieve. One day, one of my Java
development teams were fighting to deliver a large piece of code they have worked 3 days and nights...
The four of them were almost giving up when I suggested Ernani to take a look... He sits, opens The code,
inspects it... In 15min he was able to fix it and they met The deadline. This java team was composed of
The very best except for Ernani. During The time We havê worked together, I saw many displays of his
competence at global level. Always calm, always friendly, always fixing impossível codes. Ernani programs
in every language and understands quickly The most intricate business situtations. I strongly recommend
Ernani for ANY development challenges, leading teams."
Carlos G., GBS Application Services - Information & Data Management Leader (DBA Center of
Competency Mgr), IBM, managed Ernani at IBM Global Services
"Working together with Ernani 5 years ago made me only have good recommendations about him. Ernani is
a committed professional that holds great technical skills and problem solving ability in whatever he works
on. Meanwhile, his friendly nature makes it easy to work in a team. It would be a pleasure to work with him
again."
Juliana R., Technical Consultant, IBMWeb Identity AIT, worked directly with Ernani at IBM Global
Services
"Ernani is one of the most talented technical people I have worked. He is focused and full of bright ideas. His
abilities are not constrained only in the technical field but also to address business needs with revolutionary
Page5
solutions either technically enabling or improving processes. I strongly recommend him as an extremely
creative and motivated professional."
Fábio H., Info & Data Mgmt CoC Manager, IBM, worked directly with Ernani at IBM Global Services
"Ernani is a very intelligent guy. I remember several discussions we had about a lot of issues, about
architectures, about ideas, about implementing systems. He is very smart, and if you ask him something, he
can give you very interesting ideas. I know I can count on him if I need. I recommend Ernani and I hope to
work with him again in the future."
Fernando G., IT Specialist, IBM Brazil, worked directly with Ernani at IBM Global Services
"Ernani is a great developer and friend. Always striving to learn more about technology so he can be better
prepared for greater technical challenges. It is always good to count with the collaboration and technical
feedback of such a qualified developer like Ernani."
Manuel L., Owner, PHP Classes repository, worked directly with Ernani at PHPSP - PHP User Group in
São Paulo
"Uma pessoa que admiro muito. Um profissional singular, completo e dedicado. Faltam adjetivos para poder
mensurar sua competência. Recomendadíssimo!"
Dani K., Social media manager, Garage Interactive Marketing, was with another company when working
with Ernani at Websphere/Java Consultant
"Ernani well as a great friend is an excellent professional of Technology, always updated, intelligent and
patient. I recommend this excellent professional."
Anderson S., Programmer Analyst TCL/C/C++, NewPos International, was a consultant or contractor to
Ernani at Savista Corporation (former NewPOS International)
"Ernani is a great computer analyst. He self learned some programing languages like Perl, PHP and Java.
After iG he started alone some Internet projects like a virtual shopping and a payment gateway. He is serious
and focused guy."
Sandro E., Developement Manager, iG - Internet Group do Brasil, worked directly with Ernani at Internet
Group do Brasil
"Ernani is a focused developer, he love techonology and inspires any person to work. He have strong
knowlogement in Java plataform, and know web services deeply. At Internet Group (iG) we made some
website to support millions of views. I recommend Ernani, he is a great profissional."
Sandro E., Developement Manager, iG - Internet Group do Brasil, worked directly with Ernani at iG
Page6
"O Ernani é uma pessoa determinada e muito competente. Possui conhecimento técnico avançado, capacidade
analítica e experiência para gerenciar o alcance eficiente de metas e resultados."
Jose Eduardo F., Controladoria e Consultoria, Banco Sudameris de Investimento, was with another
company when working with Ernani at Sudameris Corretora de Cambio e Valores Mobiliários
Contact Ernani on LinkedIn
Page7
{end}